#+TITLE: Sway ‚ù§ Emacs

This package provides a partial interface for integrating Sway with
Emacs.  It is meant for those Emacs users who prefer to let their
window manager deal with window management, and is designed to play
well with [[https://depp.brause.cc/shackle/][Shackle]].

Its only directly usable feature right now is the
=sway-shackle-display-buffer-frame=, which either creates a new frame
with a given buffer or focus that buffer in the frame it's already
displayed on.  A reasonable default config with Shackle could look
like:

#+begin_src elisp
  (setq shackle-default-rule '(:frame t)
        shackle-display-buffer-frame-function 'sway-shackle-display-buffer-frame)

  (sway-socket-tracker-mode)
  (sway-undertaker-mode) ;; If you want to use :dedicate, read below.
#+end_src

* Extension to Shackle

=sway.el= introduces a new Shackle rule, =:dedicate t=, managed by
~sway-undertaker-mode~.  With =:dedicate=, when a new frame is created
for a buffer, it is sway-dedicated to this buffer. If this buffer gets
buried, the frame gets closed immediately. For convenience, using this
frame in any other way than acting on that buffer (switching buffers,
splitting windows) will permanently deactivate the undertaker and make
it behave like a normal frame.

This package requires an Emacs with (preferably native) JSON support.
Your Emacs is built with native JSON iff =C-h f= reports that the
function =json-parse-buffer= is implemented in C.

* The socket problem

Emacs has an issue keeping track of environment variables of client
frames.  To maintain access to the Sway socket, we need some tricks,
that are automagically managed by `sway-socket-tracker-mode`.

* What about i3?

I don't use i3, but it would be trivial to implement =i3-msg= along
=sway-msg=, and the rest should work immediately.  Feel free :)
(Notice that with i3 you won't need =sway-socket-tracker-mode=, frames
have a =display= parameter).
